# Microspectrophotometry-measurements-Pen-Inks
Statistical analysis of micro spectrophotometry measurements made for pen inks.This statistical Analysis is a review of the Article "The evidential value of published microspectrophotometry measurements made for pen inksy Agniesxka Martyna, David Lucy and team on 27 September 2013.

This data set consists of the log likelihood ratios for pairwise comparison of fourty inks obtained by paramertisation of spectra from microspectrometry in the visible range. Ten replicates of the fourty inks were parametrised and log likelihood ratios were calculated which is like a similarity score and is called Forensic likelihood ratio.The pairwise comparisons were calculated under propositions implying that any ink from the evidence document came from same pen vs it came from some other pen. The three univariate LR's corresponding to the "x","y","Z" measures of the color are part of this data set.The data set consists of 6 variables, Comparison of interest (1-820),log values of omnibus likelihood ratio(Dependent variable),Type of comparison("wi"-within source comparison and "bw"- between source comparison),Log likelihood ratio of x color variable,Log likelihood ratio of y color variable,Log likelihood ratio of z color variable.The relationship between these univariate LR's and omnibus LR constructed by Dr. Saunders, Professor of Statistics, University of South Dakota, will be analyzed in this project.

Refer the .RMD file for Exploratory Data Analysis and Feature selection.

Relationship between the Omnibus LR and the three LR's of x,y,z measures is studied.Initial investigation shows a non-linear relationship between the variables and omnibus LR.Generalized Additive Models were fit with smoothing variables of these measures. An Adjusted R square of 0.997 and GCV of 0.036 indicate that the GAM model is performing well. However, the Quantile plot of the model indicate that most of the values are not within the confidence interval and there is room for model improvement. Generalized Additive Model by likelihood based boosting(GAMboost) is fit. The model indicates an increased number of degrees of freedom which in turn indicates increased number of parameters involved and hence improved model.To confirm that the GAmboost model has improved performance over the GAM model anova of the models is performed and the lower p values show that the GAMboost model has improved performance.The plot of the model shows a linear relationship between the x,y,z measures to the omnibus LR. Between likelihood values of -0.4 and around 3 with increase in the values of the measures the omnibus LR increases whereas towards the lower and higher side, omnibus LR decreases with increase in other three measures.

Refer the refered article, .RMD file and project report for detailed analysis.
